# Bitcoin-Blockchain-based-Medical-practitioner-record-management

Proper management of medical practitioner record (MPR) and its accuracy is essential for protecting public health. Medication errors can cause several physical injury and possible death to patients. Most of the medical institutes and organizations maintain such records locally in a centralised manner which can be steal by hackers for creating fake identities. Blockchain ledger has immutability, integrity and security benefits that allows patients to access accurate medical practitioner’s record and to take treatment from genuine practitioner only. Purpose of this study is to design a blockchain based immutable and secured model for MPR. This can be a very useful mechanism to guarantee right record availability at the time of registering medical practitioner for practice in any health organization in order to avoid fake medical Practitioner from playing with the public health. Proposed model enables medical institutions to transfer MPR content on the blockchain network and empowers demanding entities (hospitals, patients, medical colleges) to retrieve it to validate medical practitioner’s record. Unique IDs are given to each MPR by universally unique identifier (UUID) and the hash computation of blocks containing MPR data is done using secure hash algorithm (SHA)-256 algorithm. The developed prototype comprises four modules for different purposes such as MPR transferring, MPR block mining, MPR block verification and addition in blockchain and MPR retrieval. All modules of the created model are tested effectively and few test outcomes are presented. The test results shows that created model is suitable for MPR management.
